Feature/repo setup (#1)
pharmaR/val.repo: README.md

# val.repo

val.repo is a curated repository of R packages that is structured similarly to

> CRAN but with additional metadata. It also hosts risk-assessment reports on its

Reviewer: As we are moving away from risk assessment maybe we could use

```suggestion
CRAN but with additional metadata: It hosts validation reports on its
```

installing the pharmapkgs R package. This can be achieved by setting the
repository to the pharmapkgs repository hosted on GitHub.

### Using the Repository

``` r
options(
    repos = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pharmaR/val.repo/refs/heads/main/repos",
    pkgType = "source"
)
available_packages <- available.packages()
nrow(available_packages)
#> [1] 7336
```

Once set, calling `available.packages()` will list the packages
available in the pharmapkgs repository. The repository currently
contains around 7,000 packages, a subset of CRAN’s nearly 30,000
packages.

### Installation Limitations

The val.repo repository differs from a traditional CRAN repository. It
does not store package tarballs but instead relies on a `download_url`
field that links to the CRAN mirror on GitHub. Base R’s
`install.packages()` expects package tarballs within the same
repository, so it does not work natively with val.repo. Instead, users
should use **pak** to install packages from this repository.

## Installation via `pak`

``` r
options(
    repos = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pharmaR/val.repo/refs/heads/main/repos",
    pkgType = "source"

> )

Reviewer: If users are following the README they already have set up the options in the previous code block.

Author: https://github.com/pharmaR/val.repo/pull/1/commits/b8c0146cac727b7b7515e81e55c4e27480611865

## Filtering Packages

val.repo features an enhanced `PACKAGES` file containing additional metadata.
Users can define custom filters for selecting packages, for example by using
the [val.criterion](https://github.com/pharmaR/val.criterion) package.
The CRAN-like structure is located under `src/contrib`.

### Example: Filtering by Dependencies Score

``` r
my_filters <- val.criterion::risk_filter(
    dependencies > 0.6
)
#> val.criterion log level:DEBUG
#> val.criterion: config values loaded
#> {
#>   "excluded_riskmetric_assessments": ["assess_covr_coverage", "assess_r_cmd_check"],
#>   "local_packages": "/tmp/RtmpdQIMZX/temp_libpath1354e8a6171/val.repo/repos/src/contrib/PACKAGES",
#>   "project_path": "/workspaces/val.criterion",
#>   "local_base": "/tmp/RtmpdQIMZX/temp_libpath1354e8a6171/val.repo/repos",
#>   "remote_base": "https://cloud.r-project.org/",
#>   "limit": 5
#> }
filtered_packages <- available.packages(filters = my_filters, fields = "dependencies")
nrow(filtered_packages)
#> [1] 3070
```

This command filters packages where the `dependencies` score is greater than
0.6.

Notice how `filtered_packages` has less rows than `available_packages`.

> 

Reviewer: I would note that since 4.5 (I think) one can set an `option` to use specific filters. Which might be a good mention for R admins trying to set up the repository on their internals environments.

## Handling Dependencies

Since the val.repo repository is incomplete, some dependencies may not
be available. To mitigate this, users can specify multiple repositories
so that missing packages are fetched from CRAN.

``` r

> options(repos = c(Pharma = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pharmaR/val.repo/refs/heads/main/repos", CRAN = "https://cran.r-project.org"))

Reviewer: I would use this set up as default and then we wouldn't need a specific section for it. This will make it easier for users to tests the first blocks and install any package without problems.
